 Very short chapter on drugs for sexually transmitted infection.
 It's short because I'm limiting it basically just to the pharmacology, just which treatments
 to know for the different STIs.
 Here is just simply showing you that the incidence of many sexual transmitted infection is actually
 on the rise, even for gonorrhea, which was kind of stable in the past couple of years,
 but you can see that.
 Most of them have a kind of upward trend to them, which is concerning.
 There's definitely a lot of work to do for a sexual education and prevention intervention
 in that realm.
 There's so much to be discussed there and there's so many great resources out there
 that do a much better job than me.
 I'll try to put some onto my courses for your personal curiosity and need and for propagation
 purposes, of course.
 So I'm going to limit my discussion here really just to which drugs, if you have a positive
 diagnosis of one of them, what drugs should be administered prescribed.
 And here there is no new drug to be introduced because all of them have our disgust in other
 sections of the course.
 So, for example, for chlamydia, the best drugs are the macrolides.
 So erythromycin, erythromycin, or tetracycline.
 So basically protein synthesis inhibitors.
 For gonorrhea, it's interesting because gonorrhea is one of the oldest infections for which we
 have treatments.
 In the 1930s, sulfonomides were used against it.
 It's one of the first antibiotics, but resistance has developed.
 And then in the 70s, penicillins were the main course treatment, but resistance did
 develop.
 So now we're up to the cephalosporins, which are the preferred drug for gonorrhea.
 And we know that resistance is probably going to develop at some point.
 So for now, the preferred drug is serf triaxone IM, could be combined with one of the protein
 synthesis inhibitors PO as well.
 For ciphalos, notice that no matter which stage it is, penicillin is usually the preferred
 drug of action because it's still very sensitive.
 For some reason, ciphalos doesn't seem to develop a lot of resistance to it.
 So the original penicillin is still in use.
 We're just going to adapt the dosage based on which stage of the disease it is.
 So more, higher dose, the more advanced it is.
 The alternative, if you have a patient that is allergic to penicillin, you can use cephalosporins
 just as well.
 But try to favor penicillin because as long as it doesn't develop, as long as it doesn't
 develop resistance to it, it has one of the best safety profiles.
 And finally, for herpes simplex treatment, we discuss acyclovir in the antiviral section.
 And remember that it's for symptom management only.
 There's not really a cure for herpes simplex.
 It's just to push the virus back to where it came from, usually some form, some dorsal
 root neural in the sun where you just want to keep it hiding there and your immune system
 will keep it at bay.
 But that's it for the SDI.
 Just know which treatment is preferred for each pathology.
