 All right, so then we get to what is poisoning then? So, poisoning is a pathologic state
 caused by a toxic agent. It could be intentional, like the assassination of Cleopatra with
 snake venom, or it could be accidental, like in the case of Mary Curie who studied
 ionic radiations without knowing they were super harmful. In all cases, poisoning will often mimic
 symptoms of known diseases, right? So, you always have to consider that maybe it's a disease,
 but then if you can't rule it out, you should also consider poisoning with different agents.
 The incidence of poisoning is highest in children because smaller body means you need a smaller
 concentration to reach a poisonous state, but the mortality is lower, right? The metabolism and
 the resilience of children to poison is actually quite amazing. I guess it, again, has some form
 of evolutionary pressure where when you're a kid, you tend to put more stuff in your mouth and
 expose and touching things so that our body evolves to be more protective and resilient to that
 early on, but then when you grow up as adults, you kind of learn what to avoid. So, then your body
 can devote those resources to other stuff instead. So, I have some US data from 2014,
 so probably we'll need to update them soon, but it's probably still close to that.
 About 95% of poisoning deaths are drug related, so that's why it's really important
 in the context of pharmacology, and about 75% of them are suicides. I volunteer in a suicide
 prevention center answering the phones and helping out people, and I can confirm that
 suicide using medications is by far one of the most common, you know, just in attempts, even if
 failed attempts, it's very common just because they're very accessible, right? In the US,
 guns are also more accessible, and you can see that their use in suicide is also much more important
 than let's say here in Canada where drugs are the primary method.
 Also, quite interestingly, while updating this lecture, I found out that a lot of Canadians are
 accidentally poisoning themselves while cleaning to prevent COVID, so one of the unknown and kind
 of hidden effects of this pandemic. So, watch out for the over-cleaning, right, and the types of
 agents and things that you're using if you're into a septosizing your whole apartment,
 right? So, the Canadian Poison Center has received more calls of that nature since March.
 Some fundamentals of poison treatment management. So, there are five things that can be done. So,
 supportive care, which is poison independent, right? Like respiratory support, electrolyte,
 and fluid management, blood glucose monitoring, right? This happens no matter what the poison is,
 that's why it's poison independent. Then you want to identify the poison, of course, as much as
 possible. You want to inhibit further absorption. If it has been ingested, you can use activated
 charcoal or gastric lavage. If it's topical exposure, like a gas or a substance that was on the skin,
 use surface decontamination and showering. Then you also want to promote poison excretion using
 theoretics. Try to pee it out. Hemodialysis to clean the blood and blood exchange if you need to
 replace some of it. And then, if an antidote is available, by all means, please use it. A good
 example would be, let's say, in a lock zone for opioids. Unfortunately, a lot of poisons
 don't have antidotes. So, this option is not always available. So, here's just an example,
 like how we can minimize poison absorption. So, activated charcoal is one of the preferred
 method. It's inert and it's unobserved, so it's very safe. The activated charcoal forms carbon
 complexes with the poisons. And then, so it binds to the drug or the other, the chemical,
 and then prevents it from being absorbed and then they just get excreted together. If it's
 taken within 30 minutes of exposure, it's 90% efficient. The longer the time pass, the faster
 the efficacy declines. You can see that a lot of drugs that were introduced in this course are
 agents that are, that can be treated using activated charcoal. But you can see that it's not
 perfect. There are certain drugs and agents with which activated charcoal doesn't bind strongly,
 too. So, it wouldn't help. You can think of iron or lithium, for example, which has a high risk of
 poisoning due to its narrow therapeutic window. It's not an option there. Other, you know, kind of
 the same vein, the same strategy are heavy metal antagonists. Those are called keylating agent,
 and they're specific for heavy metals because heavy metal poisoning is also a common case of
 toxicity. So, basically, again, you can see that a keylating agent just binds to the metallic
 iron, whatever it is, and just prevents it from doing any harm being absorbed. It just, it makes
 it become inert. So, we have different ones like diferoxamine, for iron specifically,
 damere capral for different ones like arsenic, gold, mercury, lead. Always consider that you
 get more benefits the faster it's administered. But they do have some
 toxicities. That's why you don't just give it for fun to everyone. So, they can cause some
 techiecardia, nephrotoxicity, some allergic reactions. So, still have to be careful with the dosing,
 try to give the necessary dose, but no more than that. Other options, gastric lavage. So,
 try to empty the... So, you're going to put the person on the side. Usually, they're going to be
 on their left side because the opening to the duodenum tends to be on... It's going to be
 against gravity towards the right side of the body. So, keep the gastric fluid
 pooling down in the stomach, and then you can empty it to prevent further absorption.
 So, it has to be left side in most individuals. Whole bowel irrigation. So, here, you just kind of
 push and flood everything in the GI with a lot of fluid just to dilute everything and push it out.
 Body surface decontamination looks like this. You want to clean someone as fast and as much as
 possible to minimize the damage. Not a fun experience, of course. Then, what you can do is to maximize
 poison removal. Remember, iron trapping from one of the early lectures of 300 or 500.
 This works with weak acid and weak bases that you can play around with the pH to make it into a
 more polar versus less polar form. So, here, for example, sodium bicarbonate can help to increase
 excretion of weak acids because it makes the urine more alkaline and that means the acids
 become more polar. You can see weak acid if the urine is alkaline, the weak acids will become polar,
 which means that then they won't get reabsorbed as much. So, drugs like aspirin and phenobarbital.
 This is a good technique to use for poisoning with those agents. Hemodialysis. Also, good option
 to clean the blood. So, basically, you create a system where the blood has to circulate into a
 machine that contains a carbon-based agent or another thing that can clean and that binds to the
 toxicant so that when it comes out on the other side, it's cleaned out of this harmful molecule.
 It's best when blood, the toxicant levels in the blood, are high and that there's poor binding to
 plasma protein because if there is high binding to plasma protein, it's going to be harder to get
 rid of it because it's going to remain on the plasma proteins and then the plasma protein will
 just circulate around and then go back in the body and then the toxicant is still attached to it.
 So, it has to be free-floating so that it can remain within this adsorption container and not go
 back into the body. And, of course, there are some specific antidotes. So, the ones within this
 red box are some that are antidotes to drugs that were discussed in this class or will be discussed
 in future topics. So, those should be remembered. You can see that you have acetylcysteine for
 treatments of acetaminophen overdose. You can see that a lot of the anticoagulant drugs like
 warfarin, heparin, dabigatron, those have antidotes as well in case of overdose,
 naloxone for opioids. So, just remember those antidotes that exist for those drugs,
 it has the chapters from the textbook as well where they are referred to. The ones below that,
 especially potassium iodide down here, that's going to be discussed in subsequent slides in this
 topic specifically. So, going to have to be known as well. And, of course, food poisoning.
 Common source include raw eggs, meat, fish, salad bars, and buffet, unpassurized milk. You can see
 from this whole diagram over here. It's caused by common pathogens found on those uncooked items,
 usually. So, like salmonella, ecoli, the rotavirus. The biggest concern with food poisoning is really
 the risk of dehydration. And, if it's an ecoli based food poisoning, then it could lead to kidney
 failure, mostly with risk population. But, in many cases, it's just you're going to have a
 probably one, a single bad night. You're going to get some diarrhea and deasiness,
 probably have a little intimacy with the toilet. But, if you make sure to hydrate yourself,
 eat a tiny bit, and then you make it through the night or the day, it should pass after that. If
 it remains for a couple of days, then definitely seek medical help, medical attention, because then
 it could be like a very virulent strand of one of those pathogens or something else completely.
 But, there's many things you can do to put the risks close to zero, right? Avoid certain foods.
 Be very careful where you eat those common sources of food items. There's a lot of prevention. You
 can do it washing your hands, washing your products, etc. And, again, stay hydrated and it's going to pass.
 Just to conclude this topic, I invite you to watch this short video that kind of summarizes
 the approach to the poison patient and just from a more clinical approach. It's very short, so you
 can watch it for concluding this chapter of the class. If you want to take a break, now it would be a
 a good time.
