 Okay, so moving on into the antibiotic regimens, very, very important that the presence of
 H-pylori must be established before initiating any of those regimens.
 That is because if you just give antibiotics for no reason, you're increasing the risk
 of resistance, resistance mechanisms evolving within the internal GI flora, etc.
 So we don't want to give drugs for no reason.
 So number one, test for H-pylori.
 If no, then you don't use antibiotics.
 If yes, then these are the preferred regimens.
 Notice that it's always combinations, never alone, due to the risk of resistance, and
 that the top options are really Clerythromycin and amoxicillin.
 And most of them, you're going to see Clerythromycin or amoxicillin or even both of them.
 There's one option called the Bismut-based Chrydupil Therapy, which is preferred for
 penicillin allergic patients.
 So for example, allergic to amoxicillin and resistant to Clerythromycin regimens.
 So that means you can't use either or of the preferred two, so you have to resort to
 this other type of therapy, who is still very, very much effective, just a little bit more
 toxicity, so usually not the preferred first choice.
 So you don't need to memorize all the quantities, the dosage, etc.
 Just keep in mind that Clerythromycin and amoxicillin combination always notice also that there's
 a standard dose proton pump inhibitor put in there.
 Of course, that is not an antibiotic, but it's always in the regimen.
 So it's never just antibiotics alone.
 That is not sufficient.
 That's only to get rid of the H-pylori, but it's not going to help promote ulcer healing.
 So just a bit more information on each of the potential antibiotics.
 Again, always only when H-pylori is established and never used alone.
 So Clerythromycin is the most efficient, but there's a high resistance of H-pylori to
 it, so that's why it has to be combined with, let's say, amoxicillin, who is also highly
 efficient and has a low resistance rate versus H-pylori.
 So amoxicillin is really good.
 The drawback with amoxicillin is that because it's part of the penicillin families, there
 are a significant number of individuals who are going to be allergic to it.
 So then sometimes it can't be used.
 So then you have the others like Bismuth, Tetracycline, and Metronidazole or Tineadazole,
 so the Azole class, also very effective but high resistance.
 So just stick to that.
 This is not the antibiotic lecture referred to that topic for more information, but just
 to keep in mind, those are the available agents for treatment of H-pylori induced ulcers.
 Speaking of the H-pylori tests, so how do we want to make sure that there is a presence
 of H-pylori?
 There are multiple tests that can be performed.
 Some are more invasive, others are less invasive.
 One of the most commonly used nowadays, because it is non-invasive and has a pretty high sensitivity
 and specificity, meaning can you detect the H-pylori cases?
 That's sensitivity.
 So in 95% of cases where H-pylori is there, it's going to find it.
 And also, are you specific?
 Do you have a lot of false positive?
 And here it says that it doesn't have that many.
 So what it means here is that if someone doesn't have H-pylori, it won't detect it
 in 95% to 99% of individuals.
 So that means that when you combine the two, there's about a 10% of patients, maybe 5%
 of people who have it won't be detected.
 So you're missing out on 5%.
 And there's maybe 5% of people who didn't have it, but it's going to look like they
 did.
 So they would get a treatment for no reason.
 So that's pretty high.
 That's a very good test when you have such values.
 So the way the test works, pretty simple.
 After fasting for one hour, a patient is asked to breathe into a blue collection bag.
 So just color-coded.
 It doesn't really matter if it's blue or not, but just to breathe in.
 Then they ask, they're asked to drink a solution to wait 15 minutes and then breathe again
 in a second bag.
 And what they're going to check is really to compare between the first and the second
 bag.
 So the solution that reacts with some of the toxins and the urea that is secreted by the
 H-pylori to neutralize the acid of the stomach so that if there is significant presence of
 H-pylori, the reaction between that solution and the environment inside your stomach will
 create some residues in the breath that will be different from the first bag.
 So it's like a control bag and then a test bag.
 And that's how they can know.
 So you can see that it takes about 15 minutes or so to get the two samples collected.
 And then after that may be an hour or so for confirmation of the presence or not.
 So within the same day the person can know if H-pylori is present and initiate antibiotics
